Salon App - Start Here

WHAT YOU HAVE

Two ways to use the same app:

1. One phone only (works today, no internet needed)
   The APK keeps its own customers, bookings and wallet on that one phone.

2. Laptop as the salon server (free, shared between phones)
   The shop laptop runs the salon database and server. Every phone that opens
   the app sees the same customers, bookings and wallet. No monthly host is
   needed; the laptop is the server.

   Your permanent customer link (never changes):
   https://slowyy0477.github.io/barbor_shop/

   Open that link on any phone. While the shop laptop is switched on with the
   salon server running, the page finds the server by itself and shows the
   shared salon data. When the laptop is off, the link still opens and says
   that the salon server is not reachable.


PART 1 - USE THE APK ON ONE PHONE TODAY

1. On the computer open:
   E:\Barbar-Shop\Salon-App-v1.0.0.apk
2. Send that file privately to the Android phone with a USB cable or private
   cloud storage.
3. On the phone open Files, tap the APK, allow Files to install unknown apps,
   then tap Install and Open.
4. A fresh install is empty. There are no demo customers or demo money records.
   The installed name starts as the neutral "Salon".
   If the shop laptop is switched on and running the salon server, the app
   finds it by itself, so nothing has to be typed in.
5. Owner > Settings > "Phone app name & logo" saves your salon name and logo on
   that phone. The launch screen shows them from the next start, and Android
   offers a home-screen icon with the same name and logo. Android cannot rename
   an app that is already installed, so keep that icon on staff phones.

Customer sign up and sign in on the phone

There is no SMS code in this app any more. A mobile number and a password are
the only things a customer needs.

- New customer: tap Sign in, then Create new account, then type the name, the
  mobile number and a password twice, tick the promotions box and tap Create
  account. The customer is signed in straight away.
- A complete Pakistani mobile number is accepted
  (03xx xxx xxxx, 3xxxxxxxxx, +92xxxxxxxxxx or 0092xxxxxxxxxx).
- The password must be 10 to 20 characters and must have at least one letter and
  at least one number. Example: SalonPass2026.
- Coming back later: the same mobile number and the same password. The app keeps
  the customer signed in on that phone, so they normally do not type it again.
- Five wrong password tries pause sign-in for 15 minutes.
- Forgot the password? There is no code to resend it. The owner opens
  Owner > Customers, taps Reset password, sets a new password and tells the
  customer what it is.
- Only ONE new account can be made per phone, and only THREE per internet
  connection. Change that in ops\salon-server.local.json with the keys
  MaxAccountsPerDevice and MaxAccountsPerIp (0 switches a limit off). A family
  that shares one phone should set MaxAccountsPerDevice to 2 or 3.

Owner sign-in on the phone (offline mode)

1. Tap the salon mark (the round logo at the top) five times quickly.
2. With the laptop server running, type the owner mobile number and the owner
   password. The mobile number can be left empty when you type the password.
   Double-click ops\show-owner-password.cmd to read the password again, and
   ops\set-owner-password.cmd to change it (10 to 20 characters, with at least
   one letter and one digit).
   Without a server, the offline owner code is 530146 - change it immediately
   in Owner > Settings.
3. Lock the owner workspace when finished.

Haircut photos

- The owner adds photos in Owner > Services & staff > Add haircut style.
- In that same form the owner can link the style to one of his services
  ("Bookable service"). Customers then get a real "Book this look" button that
  opens the booking screen with that service already chosen.
- Every style row has Edit, Hide/Show and Remove. Remove takes the style off the
  customer home screen and keeps the record, so nothing financial is deleted.
- Customers see those photos in the Haircut styles strip on Home. The cards
  slide in one after another as the strip appears, the photos move gently, and
  tapping a photo opens the full look with a Book this look button.
- A style without a booking link still shows its photo and price, and the
  customer gets a "Choose a service" button instead.
- Phones that ask for reduced motion show the photos without animation.

PART 2 - MAKE THE LAPTOP THE SALON SERVER (FREE)

Easiest way - let the laptop do it by itself

1. Setup is already done on the shop laptop. Nothing has to be installed again.
   The salon server starts by itself every time you sign in to Windows, and the
   laptop stops going to sleep while it is serving.
2. You have three shortcuts on the Desktop (and the same files in
   E:\Barbar-Shop):
     1 START Salon   - turn everything on by hand any time
                       (file: 1 START SALON.cmd)
     2 STOP Salon    - turn the server and the phone link off
                       (file: 2 STOP SALON.cmd)
     3 CHECK Salon   - one screen: database, server, phone address
                       (file: 3 CHECK SALON.cmd)
3. Most days you do nothing: switch the laptop on, sign in to Windows, and the
   black window starts and closes by itself.
4. If "1 START Salon" is double-clicked while everything is already running it
   simply says "ALREADY ON" and changes nothing.
5. Beginners: double-click "3 CHECK Salon" whenever you are unsure.
   Full guide: ops\README-ONE-CLICK.md

Manual way (if you prefer typing)

One-time setup on the shop laptop:

1. Open PowerShell in E:\Barbar-Shop and run:
   powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .\ops\start-salon-server.ps1 -OwnerPhone 03xxxxxxxxx
   (Replace 03xxxxxxxxx with the owner's own mobile number.)
2. The script prepares the PostgreSQL database, builds the server, starts it,
   and opens a free https tunnel. It prints:
     - Sign-in: mobile number and password (no SMS codes are used)
     - Phone address: an https://...trycloudflare.com link
3. On every salon phone that should share data:
   - Install the APK and open it.
   - The app looks up the salon address that this laptop publishes for you.
     Nothing has to be typed.
   - If a phone still says "Offline app on this phone", tap the salon mark five
     times, open Owner > Settings, paste the printed link into
     "Salon server address" and save.
   - Customers now sign up and sign in with a mobile number and a password.
4. Stop the server for the day with:
   powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .\ops\stop-salon-server.ps1

When a customer signs up for the first time

- Nothing is sent to the customer's phone. There is no SMS code at all.
- The customer types their own name, mobile number and password on the phone.
- The password must be 10 to 20 characters with at least one letter and one
  number. Tell them to remember it, because no code can be sent to recover it.
- If they forget it, the owner sets a new password in Owner > Customers.
- The shortcut ops\show-last-code.cmd still exists from the old SMS days and is
  no longer part of any sign-in. You never need to run it.

Notes about the free tunnel

- The free address changes each time you restart the server, and the laptop
  publishes the new one automatically. The permanent link above and the phone
  apps follow it, so in normal use there is nothing to copy by hand.
- The customers' permanent link is https://slowyy0477.github.io/barbor_shop/ .
  It is free and it does not change.
- Cloudflare is the usual free link, but it is not the only one. If it is busy
  the laptop opens a backup free link by itself (serveo over SSH, then
  Tunnelmole over HTTPS). Nothing has to be typed or chosen.
- While the salon is open the laptop checks the link every couple of minutes.
  If it stops answering, a fresh link is opened and published automatically,
  and the phones follow it on their own.
- If no internet link is available at all, phones on the same Wi-Fi can use the
  "Same Wi-Fi" address that Check Salon Server prints. Double-click
  ops\refresh-public-url.cmd to try the free internet link again.
- Keep the laptop awake and online while the salon is open.
- Only share the phone address with the salon. Never share the file
  ops\salon-server.local.json.


IMPORTANT BEFORE SHARING WITH MANY CUSTOMERS

- The single-phone APK stores each phone's data separately. Shared balances and
  bookings need Part 2 (the laptop server).
- Customers and the owner sign in with a mobile number and a password. No SMS
  provider, no message bill and no code to read out. Card payments and bank
  payouts still need owner accounts with those providers, and deposits are
  approved by the owner by hand.
- Free services have limits. A laptop server is free but only runs while the
  laptop is on.

Current APK checksum (SHA-256)

DBD43F0BD989103ECC1A409ADC87A2709DFC4483B726C466AB9A3579FB25FA54

Do not share the release keystore, signing properties, database password,
provider token or OTP code in chat.
